Overview
========

**Kustodian’s SIEMonster: SIEM for everyone with no limits**

As a security professional, protecting your company’s assets from
internal or external attacks is a never ending complex job. It is
crucial that you have visibility across your entire environment. It’s
like having a house alarm, there is no point having some rooms with
motion sensors and others without it.

All systems have the ability to let out an event that something is going
on but is there anyone listening to these events or cries for help. When
you picture your environment, with servers, workstations, network
appliances, printers, SCADA and other equipment they all log events. On
top of this all your applications are sending out events or alerts
including Web Servers, Databases, Applications, Anti-Virus and Endpoint
protection.

By using a Security Incident Events Management system (SIEM) we can
capture all of these events and separate the “Cry wolfs” from the real
attacks and alert the security professional that an attack maybe
underway. SIEM’s can be configured to alert operators via a console, SMS
or email for any suspect activity. This could be when an administrator
creates another privileged account or alerted when an executive is using
email from a destination that is different from their current location
or a compromised endpoint. The rules and alerts to suit your business
are limitless. One of our customers retrenched 50 staff, they wanted to
monitor closely the activity around intellectual property going out the
door. By creating a rule and putting the members into that group alerts
could be raised on file/folder copies from central servers to USB
sticks.

What are the SIEM options? Of course there is a myriad of commercial
products out there including HP ArcSight and SPLUNK which are great
products but these solutions com with node/GB limitations and can be
expensive and of course the ongoing annual license and support costs
stack up an compete with your other necessities in your security budget.

Of course you can go the open source/open framework route, and use
Elastic Logstash and Kibana (ELK) system or Cisco OpenStack, but
speaking from direct experience the time you have built the plugins,
dashboards, configs, parses and fine tuning to have a functioning SIEM
you’re looking at a years’ worth of development which is a huge problem
if highly sort after security staff leave the organisation.

Kustodian have done all this development and built a SIEM using open
source only product built on Elastic without the price tag of Elastics
Shield or Marvel add-ons. The free open source version is called
SIEMonster. SIEMonster is a free open source unlimited use version and
comes complete with dashboards, plugins, rules, incident response tools
and alerting to make a functioning SIEM and contribute to your Security
Operation Center (SOC). Included is an open source ticketing system for
Incident Response recording, reporting and raising tickets to other
analysts for shift changes as well as handy documentation and know
issues whiteboard. Item such as open tickets is fed into the dashboards
for easy viewing.

We have also included an open source vulnerability scanner OpenVAS which
can be used to scan your end points and visualize risks in your
dashboard and linked to a word maps so you can visualize where the
issues are across the world. If you already have a commercial scanner
such as Nessus or McAfee these can be fed into the dashboard as well.

The solution can be either onsite in a data centre or in the cloud such
as AWS. This solution makes it simple for businesses to use open source
SIEM technologies without the development headaches, documentation
integration, and unlimited use and is affordable which all other
products don't provide. SIEMonster is completely scalable, you can
download a single instance VMware image or a 3 node cluster and syslog
engine or multi node clusters in each geographic region.

After the successful development and roll out of SIEMonster into
an International stock listed company with over 20,000 seats, it made
sense to allow companies to use our built system for their own
environments. SIEMonster can take alerts from anything that gives an
event/alert and fully integrates with any vulnerability scanning
products you are running for a central dashboard of risks and alerts.

http://www.cso.com.au/article/587763/how-bluescope-cso-saved-big-an-open-source-global-security-operations-centre/

Kustodian who provide Penetration Testing and Security Operation
Architecture and SOC monitoring using commercial and open source
products, have made the executive decision to only provide open source
solutions that are completely free with no licensing or node limitations
and make it available to everybody.

http://www.cso.com.au/article/588265/kustodian-goes-open-source-only-after-success-bluescope-soc/?utm\_campaign=online-data-security-briefing-2015-11-10&utm\_medium=newsletter&eid=-302&utm\_source=online-data-security-briefing

Commercial products and open source solutions lack security design,
build, and operation documentation integrating into your companies
Information Security Management Systems (ISMS), whether it be aligned to
ISO27001, HIPPA or PCIDSS, which causes SIEM integration costs to
balloon out. Kustodian have documented these for you. SIEMonster comes
with a suite of documentation (Standard Operating Procedures, Detailed
Designs, DR fail over, Backups, installation guides etc.) which can slot
into your existing ISMS program.

Kustodian want the communities help in developing this solution going
forward and in return we will continue to advance the development of the
product in regular version updates with your input and our experience in
our own rollouts in commercial organisations. This product will remain
completely free and with unlimited use. So rest assured you won’t be hit
with a support license fee in the future. Of course if your company
needs additional enterprise support, custom plugins for complex
equipment Kustodian can provide that as we do with our commercial
clients.

CEO of Kustodian – Chris Rock

“As a Security Professional, SIEM provides an essential tool in any
environment, however commercial and opens source products licensing cost
models, licensing node limitations really annoyed me. Documentation
integration costs also needed to be factored in to any roll out project
and a lot of documentation for SIEMS was non-existent or not sufficient.

Open Source frameworks or products like Cisco Open stack or ELK are
fantastic, but developing a functioning SIEM/SOC takes a lot of skill
and development which not all companies want risk or invest into. These
products are like building a car, they provide you 1000’s of parts and
then expect you to put it all together and learn from trial and error
not documentation.

After Kustodian successfully built and rolled out a SIEM for one for one
of our clients, and then another client, we wanted to share and develop
this solution for everybody to use. As the product matures and the
community develops dashboards and plugins we can all take this product
into the future. This is not a Tenable Nessus Model where we turn free
into a chargeable model. The product will remain open and free.
